## 01. DLMenu: Randomise links in a sidebar menu

This basic tutorial is here to show you how you can create a random link list for example: in a blog sidebar.

```
<aside>
  <nav>
  [!DLMenu? 
  &id=`sidebar-random` 
  &parents=`[[UltimateParent]]` 
  &addWhereList=`c.hidemenu=1 AND c.id!=[*id*]` 
  &showParent=`0` 
  &hideSubMenus=`1` 
  &display=`5` 
  &sortBy=`menuindex` 
  &sortDir=`DESC` 
  &orderBy=`RAND()` 
  &outerTpl=`@CODE:<nav><ul>[+wrap+]</ul></nav>` 
  &rowTpl=`@CODE:<li><a href="[+url+]">[+menutitle+]</a>[+wrap+]</li>`
  !]
  </nav>
</aside>
```

**Code breakdown**

```
&id=`sidebar-random` 
```

The ID tag, is used to ensure that the code in this call is kept specific, it removes conflicts that can occur due to other snippets that use Doclisters core in one and the same page.

```
&parents=`[[UltimateParent]]` 
```

Parents here are called using the "UltimateParent" snippet, which means you don't have to give it a specific parent ID number

```
&addWhereList=`c.hidemenu=1 AND c.id!=[*id*]` 
```

addWhereList is a combination of parameters that have to be met, in this case documents that are set to not be shown in the menu are shown (c.hidemenu), and the current page (c.id) won't be shown in the list.

```
&showParent=`0` 
```

This stops the parent document being shown within the paginated results.

```
&hideSubMenus=`1` 
```

If your documents contains subcategories, with hideSubMenus set to "1" they won't be shown in the menu

```
&display=`5` 
```

The total amount of documents to be shown in the list


```
&sortBy=`menuindex` 
&sortDir=`DESC` 
```

Sort the results shown in the page via the menu index number (as defined in the child page) and in descending order. You can use a variety of options, trial and error here to find the best solution for your needs.

```
&orderBy=`RAND()` 
```

The rand parameter tells the list to be ordered randomly, but it stills obides to the menuindex and descending order

```
&outerTpl=`@CODE:<nav><ul class="clear">[+wrap+]</ul></nav>` 
&rowTpl=`@CODE:<li><a href="[+url+]">[+menutitle+]</a>[+wrap+]</li>`
```

As with all snippets, the snippet has templates to render the output into.

Although DLMenu is Doclister dependant, here you can see that DLMenu doesn't use the "ownerTPL" that is in the Doclister core, here, the wrapping code has to be within the "outerTpl"

The rowTpl is the simple li item with a link to the page using its menutitle, it can use other parameters, eg. pagetitle, alias etc.

**Calling the snippet**

The call should always be called uncached, as it should rotate through the pages in the main parent, always giving something new for the user to view.
