## 01. Doclister: Paginated Navigation - Basic

This tutorial is here to show you the basics to creating a paginated navigation to output multiple child documents.

All of the snippet code shown here can be copied and pasted directly into your page content or chunk and it will work - the only thing that has to be checked by yourself is whether the code must be called as cached or uncached.

Cached 

```
[[DocLister? 
code here
..`]]
```

Uncached

```
[!DocLister? 
code here
..`!]
```

The basic set-up is shown below:

```
[[DocLister? 
&id=`list` 
&parents=`[*id*]` 
&showParent=`0` 
&display=`10` 
&depth=`0` 
&sortBy=`menuindex` 
&sortDir=`ASC` 
&ownerTPL=`@CODE:<ul>[+dl.wrap+]</ul>` 
&tpl=`@CODE:<li><a href="[+url+]">[+menutitle+]</a></li>` 
&paginate=`pages` 
&PrevNextAlwaysShow=`1` 
&pageAdjacents=`2` 
&TplWrapPaginate=`@CODE:<nav><ul>[+wrap+]</ul></nav>` 
&TplFirstP=`@CODE:<li><a href="[+link+]">First</a></li>` 
&TplFirstI=`@CODE:<li>First</li>` 
&TplPrevP=`@CODE:<li><a href="[+link+]">Previous</a></li>` 
&TplPrevI=`@CODE:<li>Previous</li>` 
&TplNextP=`@CODE:<li><a href="[+link+]">Next</a></li>` 
&TplNextI=`@CODE:<li>Next</li>` 
&TplLastP=`@CODE:<li><a href="[+link+]">Last</a></li>` 
&TplLastI=`@CODE:<li>Last</li>` 
&TplPage=`@CODE:<li><a href="[+link+]">[+num+]</a></li>`  
&TplCurrentPage=`@CODE:<li>[+num+]</li>` 
&TplDotsPage=`@CODE:<li>...</li>`
]]
[+list.pages+]
```

**Code breakdown**

```
&id=`list` 
```

The ID tag, is used to ensure that the code in this call is kept specific, it removes conflicts that can occur due to other snippets that use Doclisters core in one and the same page. For further information, take a closer look at the notes at the bottom of this page.


```
&parents=`[*id*]`
```

This defines the ID of the page where the code will be shown, in this specific case, it will show the current parent e.g Blog Overview.

```
&showParent=`0`
```

This stops the parent document being shown within the paginated results.

```
&display=`10` 
```

The amount of results that are to be shown in the page output (amount of child documents).

```
&depth=`0` 
```

Shows the level / depth of documents that you want to retrieve, meaning, if you have multiple folders with documents in them, how far down do you want to go to retrieve the pages.

```
&sortBy=`menuindex` 
&sortDir=`ASC` 
```

Sort the results shown in the page via the menu index number (as defined in the child page) and in ascending order. You can use a variety of options, trial and error here to find the best solution for your needs.

```
&ownerTPL=`@CODE:<ul>[+dl.wrap+]</ul>` 
&tpl=`@CODE:<li><a href="[+url+]">[+menutitle+]</a></li>` 
```

The "owner template" is where you define the outer container, where you wish to have the elements listed, in this case, we have used an unordered list.

The "tpl" code is the code used for the individual post page output, shown here in its simplest form, by using a list item solely with the menutitle as a link, no page content or image preview.

```
&paginate=`pages` 
&PrevNextAlwaysShow=`1` 
&pageAdjacents=`2` 
```

Paginate: tells Doclister to paginate / split the output and show the paginated navigation.

PrevNextAlwaysShow: is I think self explanatory - this command tells Doclister to always show the "Prev Next" if active or not.

Page Adjacents: how many adjacent numbers to the left and right output in the paginated navigation (so far as I understand - if this is incorrect please let me know the correct definition)

```
&TplWrapPaginate=`@CODE:<nav><ul>[+wrap+]</ul></nav>` 
&TplFirstP=`@CODE:<li><a href="[+link+]">First</a></li>` 
&TplFirstI=`@CODE:<li>First</li>` 
&TplPrevP=`@CODE:<li><a href="[+link+]">Previous</a></li>` 
&TplPrevI=`@CODE:<li>Previous</li>` 
&TplNextP=`@CODE:<li><a href="[+link+]">Next</a></li>` 
&TplNextI=`@CODE:<li>Next</li>` 
&TplLastP=`@CODE:<li><a href="[+link+]">Last</a></li>` 
&TplLastI=`@CODE:<li>Last</li>` 
&TplPage=`@CODE:<li><a href="[+link+]">[+num+]</a></li>`  
&TplCurrentPage=`@CODE:<li>[+num+]</li>` 
&TplDotsPage=`@CODE:<li>...</li>`
```

These placeholders are self explanatory, shown as e.g: First Previous 1 2 3 ... 8 9 10 ... 15 16 17 Next Last
Templates with "I" at the end mean inactive e.g **TplNextI**

```
[+list.pages+]
```

This is the output placeholder where the content and paginated navigation is shown

**Notes**

Using:

```
&id=`myid`
```

with:

```
[+list.pages+]
```

won't work.

The ID must be the same as the pages output parameter, they must both have the same name:

```
[[DocLister? 
&id=`myid`
...
]]
[+myid.pages+]
```

**Nice to know**

If and only if you have no other calls in the page, you don't need to use an ID. But 9/10 times you will have DLMenu, DLCrumbs or some other Doclister reliant snippet in your page, which means in general you need to add an ID name, better to be safe than sorry as it will stop you wondering why your call isn't working.
