## 04. Doclister: Tagged blogging with Ditto - Conversion (ex.1)

The aim of this tutorial is to convert the original Ditto tutorial (Tagged blogging with Ditto (ex.1)) into a working solution for Doclister.

This tutorial uses elements found in some of my other Doclister tutorials, such as calls, pagination etc.

The code will not be broken down this time as sufficient information can be found in other tutorials describing what the elements in the calls do.

This tutorial consists of multiple parts / sections:

1. Create a tag section consisting of documents representing categories used in a pre-defined template variable
2. Create a blog section with child documents and attach the tag template variable
3. Display category tags in 2 different places - Blog overview page summary & Blog page content
4. Filter content in categories found in the tag section

For this tutorial you will need to have the following snippets installed:

1. Doclister
2. tagLinks

<details>
 <summary><strong>IMPORTANT:</strong> TagSaver Plugin</summary>
 <p>As of writing this tutorial I wasn't able to get the TagSaver plugin working, as such, it won't be used in this tutorial.</p>
 <p><strong>BUT:</strong> if you want to, you can install the plugin and the database tables using the instructions found in the tutorial.</p>
 <p>This way if the TagSaver method can (eventually) be used, you won't have to go back and re-save all pages that use tags, as they will have already been saved into the TagSaver database tables.</p>
 <p>It could save you time at a later stage, that is, if and when I get help to complete the Tagsaver tutorial.</p>
</details>

# Section 1: Getting Started

As this tutorial is about **category tagging**, we need to pre-define what categories we want to use in the website.

For this specific tutorial, we will be using colours.

To note is: we can add categories at a later stage, but if you wish to add these categories to older posts, you will have to revisit the post / page and select it/them and re-save the document.

###### Step 1 - Create A Category Template Variable:

There is no difference to creating any other TV.

The "input option values" used in this tutorial are as follows:

```
Aqua||Black||Blue||Fushsia||Gray||Green||Lime||Maroon||Navy||Olive||Purple||Red||Silver||Teal||White||Yellow
```

You can simply copy and paste the above values into your own TV. The following settings are for this tutorial only, you can name the TV as you wish, you just need to be sure to refer to the right TV name later.

**TV Settings**

TV Name: myTags
Input Type: Check Box
